Top Interview Unix Commands (For Java Developers)
Command

chmod
chmod is the command and system call used to change the access permissions of file system.
 
4(r) + 2(w) + 1(x) 

Each group has three permissions rwx stands for read, write and execute and they are written as user_group_others. 

For example,754 would allow:
    • "read" (4), "write" (2), and "execute" (1) for the User class i.e. 7 (4+2+1).
    • "read" (4) and "execute" (1) for the Group class i.e. 5 (4+1).
    • Only "read" (4) for the Others class.


ls
ls -ltr
This combination will give size, long list and sort files from the time of creation/modify.

grep
grep is a command-line utility for searching plain-text data sets for lines that match a regular expression. 

grep “^Processing” file1

Match all lines that start with “Processing”

kill
Used to kill or terminate a process

kill <PID>
find
 find is a command-line utility that locates files based on some user-specified criteria

find ./tmp -name sample.txt 

search for file named sample.txt under ./tmp directory
 
pwd
writes the full pathname of the current working directory to the standard output 
mv
mv is a Unix command that moves one or more files or directories from one place to another 
rm
rm is a basic command on Unix and Unix-like operating systems used to remove objects such as computer files, directories 
rmdir
rmdir is a command which will remove an empty directory 
echo
echo is a command that outputs the strings it is being passed as arguments 
cat
cat is a standard Unix utility that reads files sequentially, writing them to standard output 
whoami
prints the effective username of the current user 
cron
time-based job schedule 
ping
utility used to test the reachability of a host on an Internet 
head
Read first few lines from top of the file
tail
Read few lines from the end of the file


    • How to find running “java” processes on unix:

	ps -ef | grep java

    • In a file word "Error" is appearing many times. How will you count number?
      
      grep -c "Error" filename



    • How do you set environment variable which will be accessible form sub shell?
      
      By using export command,  for example export filelocation=/tmp/scripts will be available on all sub shell.
      
    • find which operating system your system is running on

uname
      
    • How to find all text file which contains word Exception

find. –name "*.txt" | grep "Exception"
      
    • How to check if a particular process is listening on a particular port on remote host?
      
telnet hostname port 


    • How do you copy file from one host to other server

using scp or sftp command
      
    • How do you find which process is consuming how much CPU?

Using top command
      
    • How do you check how much space left in current drive

using df
      
    • In VI editor, how can you go to the end of the file without using arrow keys:
      
      Shift+G
